# Geometric-Tm
Protein dynamics-informed multigraphic neural network for melting temperature prediction.

---
# Overview
## Code for data processing and training
The program is written as a Python package located under `/src/ml_modules`.
Code for building the data representation can be found under `data`, while the model architecture and code for training / testing loop can be found under `training`.
Actual runs are built upon these modules and are located under `/experiments` and are grouped hierarchically into subdirectories in the following order: model architecture > data representation. For example, to find training and evaluation scripts for the S1 architecture on the full training set, go to `/experiments/S1/bacbone_X-contact_12-codir_X-coord_X-deform_X`.

## Dataset
The list of proteins in each dataset are listed under `/src/datasets`. Here, you'll find three sets:
1. Preliminary training set: used to quickly screen all setups.
2. Full training set: a selection of best-performing setups is trained on this set.
3. Test set: all evaluations are completed on this set.

Additionally, statistics on the dynamical coupling values are summed up in the subdirectory. These values are referenced when the selected data representation calls for threshold vallues that are determined based on dataset-wide statistics.

## Data
Data downloaded or generated are all saved under `/data`. These are categorized into three:
1. `external`: Structures downloaded from AlphaFoldDB will be saved here. A log for entries that failed to download is also kept here.
2. `collation`: Files generated by `TNM` will be merged into one and saved here. A log for entries that failed to be processed is also kept here.
3. `processed`: Graph generated will be saved in here. The sequence embeddings from ProtTrans and the edge connection are saved in separate files.

## Generating the figures
Code for data analysis and plotting are placed under `notebooks`.

---
# Environment setup
1. The conda environment used is provided in `environment.yml`. Run the following to create it:
```
conda env create -f environment.yml # creates an environment named Geometric-Tm
conda activate Geometric-Tm
pip install torch==2.8.0 --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu128
pip install torch_geometric
```
2. You'll also need to build [TNM]([url](https://github.com/ugobas/tnm)) (commit: 66d3ace) and place it in your PATH. (The original character length of 80 for input file path is likely too short for the absolute path that our program sents to it, so be sure to modify `main_tnm.c` before building. In particular, look for `char input [80]=""` and make the array larger, e.g., to 512.)
```
git clone https://github.com/ugobas/tnm.git
git checkout 66d3ace
make
```
Then, copy the tnm executable to PATH. For example, `/usr/local/bin` for machine-wide access, or `$HOME/miniconda/envs/Geomeric-Tm/bin` for a quick fix that only works when the environment is enabled.
